Work Place - Solution

Navigating the COVID-19 pandemic and its aftermath will be one of the biggest business challenges of our time. To keep operations going while minimizing the risk to employees, most companies have adapted new ways of working that have left their offices, factories, stores and other facilities relatively empty. Amid mounting economic turmoil, executives are increasingly guarded in their outlook—only one in five chief financial officers surveyed by PwC said they believed their companies could resume “business as usual” within a month if the crisis ended today.

Management teams bear the primary responsibility for navigating their companies through this disruption. It will be up to them to determine how and when to start the complex task of returning to the workplace once government restrictions are lifted. But boards of directors also have a role. In order to perform their essential oversight duties, corporate boards need to understand the problems their executives are focused on solving as they chart a course to take their workforces from crisis to recovery. That will allow directors to serve as an invaluable sounding board for management—and also enable them to ask the right questions about the company’s plans.

The health and safety of the workforce should be management’s top priority as it considers how to bring operations back to some semblance of normal. This is, of course, a moral, ethical and legal concern for all companies. And from a business perspective, safeguarding employees’ well-being is paramount because no plan to resume normal operations can succeed without them.

Employees are counting on their companies to help them get back to work safely. Management teams will need to understand and ensure compliance with federal, state and local orders as restrictions are eased. Since these rules vary by locale and probably won’t be relaxed in unison, executives should plan for a range of scenarios based on where mission-critical work takes place.

Once it’s possible to reopen offices, factories and distribution centers, management teams will face the challenge of keeping them safe. New protocols for deep cleaning and sanitization may be needed. It could also mean changes to the layout of the workspace, such as moving workstations farther apart or changing employee schedules to reduce the number of people in buildings at one time.

Companies may also wish to consider establishing guidelines for the use of personal protective equipment, such as face masks and gloves, checking employees and visitors for fever before entering the workplace, and establishing rules governing when employees can return to work after recovering from infection. Given the ubiquity of mobile devices, it may be possible to leverage technology (e.g., apps) to facilitate contact tracing and communicate with employees who’ve been exposed to the virus and need to self-quarantine. Whenever steps like these are being considered, however, it’s important to make sure protocols are in place to safeguard workers’ personal data.