Health-Protein Solution

The evidence that supports living an active lifestyle is indisputable. By keeping active, people can enjoy benefits like lower rates of health 
conditions and disease, improved mood, higher energy levels, better sleep, and the list goes on.

It's important to pair an active lifestyle with a healthy diet in order to truly maximize the benefits. Protein in particular is essential. 
There are many types of plant and animal proteins, all with different benefits. For this challenge, we want you to think about new product ideas for 
a high protein food/snack/drink. One that mixes both dairy proteins with other forms of protein for the ultimate product.

In recent years there has been a growing trend towards convenient, healthy, and nutritional snacks linked to busy lifestyles, exercise and 
people on-the-go. As you would expect, Valio follows industry mega-trends, and continually evolves and innovates product lines to bring new choices to the market. 
One of the standout shifts in the snack market has been a trend towards eating foods that are higher in protein, yet still healthy. Figures show this type of diet is something that consumers want.

According to Valio research, more than 80 % of people think protein is generally healthy, while 60 % of consumers feel the amount
 of protein they consume is relevant to their diet. Almost 50 % of consumers look for protein when buying dairy products.

High-quality protein for active life
That’s where the Valio team comes in, developing the protein-rich Valio PROfeel® range to meet the needs of on-trend consumers.

“Our portfolio of protein-rich snacks is easy to use, and it’s easy for people to understand what they are,” explains Business Manager Johanna Olli.

Information about high protein content is printed boldly on the packag­ing, the graphics are bright, and it’s simple to identify the key information.

From high-protein quark to protein-enriched milk
The Valio PROfeel® range includes quark, powders made from whey protein, drinks in individual serving sizes, and protein-enriched milk.

“These products have a high protein count,” says Olli. “For example our quark has 19 grams of protein per serving. The market we’re aiming at
 is men and women aged 20–39, people who pay attention to the protein intake in their diet and eat healthy. They have active lifestyles and stay fit,”
 she adds.

All milk products contain high-quality milk protein. Milk protein contains all of the nine amino acids essential for the body and is therefore
 a “complete” protein. Milk protein is also absorbed easily, and our bodies utilize it efficiently.

Great variety and quality in the Valio PROfeel® range
Like all consumers, people who pay attention to their diet and dietary protein levels want variety and quality. So Valio has developed interesting 
flavours and free-from combinations for the PROfeel range.

There’re options like sugar-free and lactose-free pear quark, and strawberry flavoured quark; chocolate, vanilla, and toffee flavoured long life UHT 
protein drinks; and strawberry, vanilla, and chocolate protein powder made from whey protein.

The quark, powders or drinks can be consumed on their own. Powders can also be whipped, folded and baked into desserts, shakes, healthy 
protein-rich cookies and muffins, bringing even more choice, flexibility and taste to everyday lives of people who love to snack, but want to keep healthy with protein.


