Social Distancing - Solution

COVID-19 pandemic have greatly impacted the socio-economic and political landscape of human interactions and its society. As such, technology can help bring artists and fans closer together during social distance in this crisis period as outlined below:
Setting up a streaming platform like YouTube and Vimeo can help to bring artists and fans closer together.
Setting up of social media group like Facebook page, Twitters, Instagram, WhatsApp group, and any other social platform. Thus, by cutting the middleman, artists can establish mush closer relations between themselves and their fan base. This is called direct-to-fan marketing.
Some fans will be happy to add a few tracks from their favourite artists to their playlists on Spotify and iTunes, and simply engage with them by listening to the new tracks during this period of social distancing.
Also, platforms and apps such as GigRev and Bkstg with direct-to-fan marketing in mind to bring artists and fans closer together.
Social networking, crowdfunding, digital distribution, music and artwork streaming, and mobile technology can help bring artists and fans closer together.
Starting a group on social media, and sharing your artwork like drawings, sketches or poetry could be one avenue
Also, one could even screen people online to become a member of your band or artistic group. Posting poetry and music with your friends and doing a poll on social media to see who likes the artwork and who doesn’t, getting yourself an insight as to whether or not your piece will be successful or not.

Starting a group on social media, and sharing your artwork, whether it be music, drawings, sketches or poetry could be one avenue. I found a group on facebook named ’Rock the Lockdown’ which in fact had better performers than those found on the x-factor or the voice, which are mainstream TV shows.

One idea could be for you to arrange an event for when the lockdown ends. You could even screen people online to become a member of your band or artistic group. Posting poetry and music with your friends and doing a poll on social media to see who likes the artwork and who doesn’t, getting yourself an insight as to whether or not your piece will be successful or not.