Social Distancing Description :

Deliverables

The goal of this challenge is to design applications that bring artists and fans closer together. You will be expected to present a detailed vision for a product or technology. Please include materials to support your idea (ex. deck, wire-frames and/or product mock-ups were appropriate)

"*IMPORTANT* We are specifically looking for backed concepts that do not exist in the market today and would prefer NOT to hear any commentary on what is already available. (i.e. "use Instagram,  advertise through Facebook, etc.) If these existing applications can be used in new and innovative ways that DO NOT already exist make sure you provide details supporting why and how. "

Live streaming and chat functionalities are widely available on services like Facebook, Instagram, Twitch, etc. Combining both will not lead to high ratings. We encourage you to think about specialty opportunities that this time in history creates for artists engaging with fans. 
 While these were winning ideas pre- COVID-19, we thought it would be helpful for you to see other ideas judged highly by UMG.

 Feat. - A platform that aims to promote collaboration between fans and artists around graphics associated with their releases. 

Live Show App - An app that connects people around live shows in their specific location.

Riffa - An app that allows artists to sponsor raffles benefiting social causes important to them.

With that said:

• Provide a brief description of your app; 

• Explain how music will be integrated if at all; 

• Describe the fan and artist experience on the app; and 

• Define the business model, if any.

NOTE: Please include materials to support your idea (ex. deck, wire-frames, product mock-ups where appropriate)  

***All Apps will be judged on, and points awarded on a scale from 1 to 10, for each of the following equally weighted criteria: (1) Creativity; (2) Meets Deliverables; (3) Clarity; and (4) Novelty

No purchase necessary.  Void where prohibited.  Open only to registered MindSumo Problem Solvers, age of majority or older in their country of residence at time of entry.  Ends 5/12/20.  See full Terms & Conditions, Privacy (https://privacy.umusic.com/) for more information. 



Submissions will be graded on the following criteria:
1-10 Scale