Product Description :

Deliverables
We'd like you to create a new product concept or share an idea we can take to market! Your challenge is to do one of the two following options:

1) Recommend innovative refinements to one or two of our current products (either Reynolds Wrap Aluminum Foil or Reynolds Kitchens Parchment Paper)

What product improvements could you add to either Reynolds Wrap or Reynolds Kitchens Parchment to inspire consumers to choose our products over their respective competitive store brand options?
2) Identify new ways to use one or two of our current products in the kitchen:

Reynolds Wrap Aluminum Foil: what ways can you use this product for cooking/grilling beyond covering or lining dishes, pans, grill grates, etc. or wrapping foods?
Reynolds Kitchens Parchment Paper: what ways can you use this product beyond lining pans or bakeware or wrapping foods?
Target consumers: Assume the people who would use the product: have primary or shared responsibility for kitchen shopping and cooking/food preparation for the household, are 25-54 years old, and generally more women than men.

In your product concept, make sure to include:

1.What is the need or problem the person using this product is solving?
2. What is the product used for?
3. What is it made out of?
4. Why is it better than existing solutions?
5. What is the competition, and what unique benefits does it offer vs. the competition (if there is competition)?

Please bring this concept to life for us! You may submit your responses in form of text, sketches/illustrations, wireframes, videos, or even make it yourself with materials at hand and share a picture.

Criteria:

Keep the following in mind when submitting your solution:

1) Your idea can be used for any part of the cooking process (indoor or outdoor) from meal prepping to consumption. We’re open to the possibilities!

2) It should solve a need – this is something people will want (and are willing to pay for)

3) The product should be uniquely Reynolds, ideally to be used in a situation where you'd want to purchase from a brand who has a strong reputation for high quality products (I.e. you wouldn’t want to skimp on something that wouldn’t work as well)

4) Product ideas should be disposable, in other words typically built for one-time use.

 Here are some thought starters:

Making changes to the product (such as grooved or perforated) so it serves a new or different purpose to provide an extra benefit when cooking, like improving flavor or texture of the food
Making changes to the product that will allow it to preserve food freshness longer than current products and reduce food waste
Create grill grate cleaners by crushing sheets of Reynolds Wrap into balls


Submissions will be graded on the following criteria:
1-10 Scale